Landing pages are the pages where people first enter your site.
Any page of your site could be a landing page,
it's very important to remember that when you manage a website.
We often think of the homepage as the landing page
as you often design it to be the first interaction with your site,
but people don't always enter your site through the homepage.
Actually, these days, you see an increasing amount of traffic bypassing the home page.
Why? Because people search for specific content or products,
and they click on the exact link to what they're looking for.
No need to check out the homepage first,
or links to content on your site are being shared on platforms like Facebook,
and people click the link to for instance,
a news article on The New York Times,
they don't see the New York Times homepage.
So, every page of your site can be a landing page.
It's important to checkout which of your pages function most often as landing pages.
You can do that in the landing pages report.
Here, we can see for any page on the site,
how many sessions started with this page as the landing page.
In this case, for the Google merchandise store,
the homepage is the main landing page,
and it looks like during the month of August,
the men's t-shirt page was an important landing page too.
Note how this can change,
as new links to your site gets shared different pages
may become more popular landing pages.
You also get an estimate of the percentage of first-time visits here,
percent new sessions, and the number of
new visitors to the site that started their session through this page.
The second part of the report provides us with
the related engagement metrics for the landing pages.
These are important.
If these pages are the first interaction your users have with your site,
then you want to make sure they engage with the pages.
That could mean different things.
Spending time on the page,
as we saw before,
that is really important for content pages
like blog posts for instance, or news articles.
You want people to take time reading and watching your content.
Engagement could also mean navigating deeper into the site.
Ideally, people don't stop after visiting the landing page alone,
but they navigate from that landing page to other pages in your site.
In this section, you find the average session duration metric.
This refers to the average time the user spends in
the session that started with this landing page.
You also find the pages per session metric,
which refers to the average number of pages viewed
during a session that started with this landing page.
Sometimes this metric is referred to as, The page depth.
There's one metric in the engagement section that's super important, the bounce rate.
You can look at this as the anti engagement metric.
Bouncing refers to a user coming to your site and
immediately leaving again without interacting with any content.
When we say interacting with the content,
we mean clicking on a link,
or launching an events like for instance, playing a video.
Very often, a bounce happens when a user comes
into your site by clicking on a search engine result,
and then leaves immediately using the back button.
In some cases, bounces happen because there's just
nothing else for the user to do on the page they landed on,
no link to click on,
no interesting next step.
So, the main two reasons for bouncing are
a mismatch between user expectation and what a site offers,
or the page design does not engage further.
Bounces are bad. It is really
the user's way of saying that they did not like what they saw,
or that it was not relevant to them,
or not good enough to continue spending time.
So, you have to avoid bounces from happening.
So, you might wonder what a high bounce rate is.
To some extent, you may determine what you think is acceptable.
If you see more than 50 percent of the people who enter
your site leave immediately without looking at any other page,
you may find that unacceptable, but on the other hand,
you will always have a certain level of bouncing on your site.
J Peyton, at Rocket fuels studies this in a little bit more detail.
He compared over 60 different sites and looked at their average bounce rate.
This graph represents the distribution he found.
The average bounce rate is somewhere between 45 and 55 percent.
If you see a lower bounce rate, that's great.
If your bounce rate is over 55 percent,
you may want to look into improving your landing page.